the caterpillar mega mwt 30 is a large
water tanker used in mines to provide
dust suppression by sprinkling water the
vehicle is based on caterpillar 785
demining truck which is converted by the
mega corporation by the addition of a
30,000 gallon water tank it's a big
truck so this model by norscot is also
big and it comes in a typical
caterpillar branded box there's no
information about the real truck but
there is a description of some of the
features of the model on the box the
packaging robustly protects the model
from shipping damage but it doesn't
protect the collector from a few
frustrating minutes trying to get the
model free as usual the ties that fix
the model to the base around super tight
and even when you undo them it's a real
struggle to get them free from the model
having won that battle the wars not
quite over because there's another piece
of tape to remove in order to free up
the tank with that done the model is
released and it's complete with no
assembly to do the chassis is heavily
constructed although there's no engine
or transmission detail visible the tires
are good because they're not too shiny
and they've got a bulge in the sidewalls
which looks good and the plastic wheels
are okay too there are plenty of
decently thin metal handrails on the
front and there are some painted lights
and too many air horns up on the cab
deck much of the equipment is modelled
in plastic but over very good color
match and the cab is metal with a
reasonable interior between the wheels
there are detailed plastic tanks again
with a good color match and at the back
the massive axle and suspension is
impressive the tank is metal and on top
it has a textured walkway leading to the
filler hatches which are quite nicely
detailed one of the ways that the
machine can spew out water is through
the water cannon that's modeled on the
front at the back there's a spraying bar
with valves and that's all modelled in
metal
there are various elements on the tank
made of soft plastic and that includes
the ladder handrails and the safety
rails on the side a health and safety is
wasted on the cranes etc
I must think they're made of unbreakable
plastic or something
so now it's time to take the NWT 30 out
into the test quarry and it's all birth
shape rolls along very nicely both the
front and the rear wheels are very free
spinning and a very nice feature is the
heavy sprung suspension on the rear axle
also nice at the back of the flexible
mud flaps it would have been good if
there been some in front of the rear
wheels too and at the front the steering
mechanism works well enough you can
achieve a sensible angle before the
tires fouled on the tanks behind and it
pushes along just fine in a reasonable
curve let's have another look at that
suspension again and it makes you wonder
what on earth is going on in that
operators cab another feature of the
model is the bars that remove debris
from between the tires so you should
find no problem with this vehicle
getting jammed up with carpet fluff or
worse another feature is that the hole
of the tank tilts on a pair of two-stage
cylinders and that's been implemented
quite nicely and works well looking from
a bit further back you can see that it
tilts to a really a pretty steep angle
and that's not to get the water out
that's to allow access to the chassis
for servicing there are another couple
of small features which are quite
interesting there's a little gate at the
top of the stairs which allows access to
the ladder and one of the mirrors moves
so it can be folded in if the vehicle
was being transported this is an
interesting and unusual model of a
specialized vehicle it's strongly made
and there's a decent mix of detail and
features it is perhaps a bit pricey
though however for anyone who collects
mining models it's recommended
you